# Slidy

CLI package manager and template generator for Flutter. Generate Modules, Pages, Widgets, BLoCs, Controllers, tests and more.

Slidy supports mobx, bloc, cubit, rx_notifier and triple.

# Why should I use it?

Slidy's goal is to help you structure your project in a standardized way. Organizing your app in **Modules** formed by pages, repositories, widgets, BloCs, and also create unit tests automatically. The Module gives you a easier way to inject dependencies and blocs, including automatic dispose. Also helps you installing the dependencies and packages, updating and removing them. The best is that you can do all of this running a single command.

# Motivations

We realized that the project pattern absence is affecting the productivity of most developers, so we're proposing a development pattern along with a tool that imitates NPM (NodeJS) functionality as well as template generation capabilities (similar to Scaffold ).

# About the Proposed Pattern

The structure that slidy offers you, it's similar to MVC, where a page keeps it's own **business logic classes(BloC)**.

We recommend you to use [flutter_modular](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_modular) when structuring with slidy. It offers you the **module structure**(extending the WidgetModule) and dependency/bloc injection, or you will probably get an error.

To understand **flutter_modular**, take a look at the [README](https://github.com/Flutterando/modular/blob/master/README.md).

We also use the **Repository Pattern**, so the folder structure it's organized in **local modules** and a **global module**. The dependencies(repositories, BloCs, models, etc) can be accessed throughout the application.

Sample folder structure generated by **slidy**:

## Installation

You can get Slidy of many ways.

### **Flutter/Dart directly**

```bash
 dart pub global activate slidy
```

### choco (only windows)

```bash
 choco install slidy
```

### Homebrew (macos and linux)

```bash
 brew install slidy
```

### curl and wget (linux)

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/allansrc/slidy/master/install.sh | bash
```

```bash
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/allansrc/slidy/master/install.sh | bash
```

### Hello world!

After install, exec the slidy version command.
If the command was completed, the slidy was installed.

```bash
 slidy --version
```

## Commands:

**start:**
Create a basic structure for your project (confirm that you have no data in the "lib" folder).

```
slidy start
```

**run:**
Run scripts placed in the "scripts" parameter in pubspec.yaml

```
slidy run open_folder
```

**Install:**
Install (or update) a new package or packages:

```
slidy install mockito dio modular
```

You can also install a package as dev_dependency using the flag --dev

```
slidy i flutter_launcher_icons --dev
```

## Generate:

Create a module, page, widget or repository according to the option.

**Options:**

Creates a new module with **slidy generate module**:

```
slidy generate module manager/product
```

Creates a new page with **slidy generate page**:

```
slidy generate page manager/product/pages/add_product
```

Creates a new widget with **slidy generate widget**:

```
slidy generate widget manager/product/widgets/product_detail
```

Create a new repository with **slidy generate repository**

```
slidy g r manager/product/repositories/product
```

Create a new rx notifier with **slidy generate rx**

```
slidy g rx manager/product/page/my_rx_notifier
```

Create a new triple with **slidy generate t**

```
slidy g t manager/product/page/my_triple
```

Create a new cubit with **slidy generate c**

```
slidy g c manager/product/page/my_cubit
```

Create a new mobx with **slidy generate mbx**

```
slidy g mbx manager/product/page/my_store
```

For more details [Telegram Group Flutterando](https://t.me/flutterando)
